README.md, before:

# `anonymize-mysqldump`

[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/humanmade/go-anonymize-mysqldump.svg?style=svg&circle-token=ebedd768d31011e20aff68c78694a171e62a7ec0)](https://circleci.com/gh/humanmade/go-anonymize-mysqldump)

Allows you to pipe data from `mysqldump` or an SQL file and anonymize it:

```sh
mysqldump -u yada -pbadpass -h db | anonymize-mysqldump --config config.json > anonymized.sql
```

## Installation

You can download the binary for your system from the [Releases](https://github.com/humanmade/go-anonymize-mysqldump/releases/) page. Once downloaded and `gunzip`'d, move it to a location in your path such as `/usr/local/bin`.

## Usage

This tool is designed to read a file stream over STDIN and produce an output over STDOUT. A config file is required and can be provided via the `-c` or `--config` flag. An example config for anonymizing a WordPress database is provided at [`config.example.json`](./config.example.json).

```
usage: anonymize-mysqldump [-h|--help] -c|--config "<value>"

                           Reads SQL from STDIN and replaces content for
                           anonymity based on the provided config.

Arguments:

  -h  --help    Print help information
  -c  --config  Path to config.json
```

## Config File

An example config for anonymizing a WordPress database is provided at [`config.example.json`](./config.example.json).

The config is composed of many objects in the `patterns` array:

- `patterns`: an array of objects defining what modifications should be made.
  - `tableName`: the name of the table the data will be stored in (used to parse `INSERT` statements to d	etermine if the query should be modified.)
  - `fields`: an array of objects defining modifications to individual values' fields
    - `field`: a string representing the name of the field. Not currently used, but still required to work and useful for debugging.
    - `position`: the 1-based index of what number column this field represents. For instance, assuming a table with 3 columns `foo`, `bar`, and `baz`, and you wished to modify the `bar` column, this value would be `2`.
    - `type`: a string representing the type of data stored in this field. Read more about field types [here](#field-types).
    - `constraints`: an array of objects defining comparison rules used to determine if a value should be modified or not. Currently these are limited to a simple string equality comparison.
      - `field`: a string representing the name of the field.
      - `position`: the 1-based index of what number column this field represents. For instance, assuming a table with 3 columns `foo`, `bar`, and `baz`, and you wished to modify the `bar` column, this value would be `2`.
      - `value`: string value to match against.

### Constraints

Supposing you have a WordPress database and you need to modify certain meta, be it user meta, post meta, or comment meta. You can use `constraints` to update data only whenever a certain condition is matched. For instance, let's say you have a user meta key `last_ip_address`. If you wanted to change that value, you can use the following config in the `fields` array:

```
{
  "field": "meta_value",
  "position": 4,
  "type": "ipv4",
  "constraints": [
    {
      "field": "meta_key",
      "position": 3,
      "value": "last_ip_address"
    }
  ]
}

```



### Field Types

Each column stores a certain type of data, be it a name, username, email, etc. The `type` property in the config is used to define the type of data stored, and ultimately the type of random data to be inserted into the field. [https://github.com/dmgk/faker](https://github.com/dmgk/faker) is used for generating the fake data. These are the types currently supported:

- `username`
- `password`
- `email`
- `url`
- `name`
- `firstName`
- `lastName`
- `paragraph`
- `ipv4`

If you need another type, please feel free to add support and file a PR!

## Credit

Many thanks to [`Automattic/go-search-replace`](https://github.com/Automattic/go-search-replace) for serving as the starting point for this tool! Also many thanks to [`xwb1989/sqlparser`](https://github.com/xwb1989/sqlparser) for the SQL parsing library. I wouldn't have been able to do this without it!

Commit message:

add Caveats section to README

README.md, after:

# `anonymize-mysqldump`

[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/humanmade/go-anonymize-mysqldump.svg?style=svg&circle-token=ebedd768d31011e20aff68c78694a171e62a7ec0)](https://circleci.com/gh/humanmade/go-anonymize-mysqldump)

Allows you to pipe data from `mysqldump` or an SQL file and anonymize it:

```sh
mysqldump -u yada -pbadpass -h db | anonymize-mysqldump --config config.json > anonymized.sql
```

## Installation

You can download the binary for your system from the [Releases](https://github.com/humanmade/go-anonymize-mysqldump/releases/) page. Once downloaded and `gunzip`'d, move it to a location in your path such as `/usr/local/bin`.

## Usage

This tool is designed to read a file stream over STDIN and produce an output over STDOUT. A config file is required and can be provided via the `-c` or `--config` flag. An example config for anonymizing a WordPress database is provided at [`config.example.json`](./config.example.json).

```
usage: anonymize-mysqldump [-h|--help] -c|--config "<value>"

                           Reads SQL from STDIN and replaces content for
                           anonymity based on the provided config.

Arguments:

  -h  --help    Print help information
  -c  --config  Path to config.json
```

## Caveats

Important things to be aware of!

- Currently this only modifies `INSERT` statements. Should you wish to modify other fields, feel free to submit a PR.
- **Verify the output file has been modified.** This is a friendly reminder this tool is still in its early days and you should verify the output sql file before distributing it to ensure the desired modifications have been applied.

## Config File

An example config for anonymizing a WordPress database is provided at [`config.example.json`](./config.example.json).

The config is composed of many objects in the `patterns` array:

- `patterns`: an array of objects defining what modifications should be made.
  - `tableName`: the name of the table the data will be stored in (used to parse `INSERT` statements to d	etermine if the query should be modified.)
  - `fields`: an array of objects defining modifications to individual values' fields
    - `field`: a string representing the name of the field. Not currently used, but still required to work and useful for debugging.
    - `position`: the 1-based index of what number column this field represents. For instance, assuming a table with 3 columns `foo`, `bar`, and `baz`, and you wished to modify the `bar` column, this value would be `2`.
    - `type`: a string representing the type of data stored in this field. Read more about field types [here](#field-types).
    - `constraints`: an array of objects defining comparison rules used to determine if a value should be modified or not. Currently these are limited to a simple string equality comparison.
      - `field`: a string representing the name of the field.
      - `position`: the 1-based index of what number column this field represents. For instance, assuming a table with 3 columns `foo`, `bar`, and `baz`, and you wished to modify the `bar` column, this value would be `2`.
      - `value`: string value to match against.

### Constraints

Supposing you have a WordPress database and you need to modify certain meta, be it user meta, post meta, or comment meta. You can use `constraints` to update data only whenever a certain condition is matched. For instance, let's say you have a user meta key `last_ip_address`. If you wanted to change that value, you can use the following config in the `fields` array:

```
{
  "field": "meta_value",
  "position": 4,
  "type": "ipv4",
  "constraints": [
    {
      "field": "meta_key",
      "position": 3,
      "value": "last_ip_address"
    }
  ]
}

```



### Field Types

Each column stores a certain type of data, be it a name, username, email, etc. The `type` property in the config is used to define the type of data stored, and ultimately the type of random data to be inserted into the field. [https://github.com/dmgk/faker](https://github.com/dmgk/faker) is used for generating the fake data. These are the types currently supported:

- `username`
- `password`
- `email`
- `url`
- `name`
- `firstName`
- `lastName`
- `paragraph`
- `ipv4`

If you need another type, please feel free to add support and file a PR!

## Credit

Many thanks to [`Automattic/go-search-replace`](https://github.com/Automattic/go-search-replace) for serving as the starting point for this tool! Also many thanks to [`xwb1989/sqlparser`](https://github.com/xwb1989/sqlparser) for the SQL parsing library. I wouldn't have been able to do this without it!
